Let's start with, what is a bundler?
If you look at this page right now,
I'm just viewing source on
the the page that you and
I just created here, right?
It's creating this file
here index.9e7b1db9.js.
As you and I both know, we didn't
write that, we wrote app.js, right?
Well, how did we get from here to this,
right?
And if you look at this,
That's actually fairly simple, right?
It's actually not even really doing
very much transformation for us.
I guess the only thing that it is doing at
the moment is that it's doing render here,
down here, right?
And it moved it down from there,
which is kind of funny.
So, how is that happening?
I guess I need to refresh the page here.
Yes, this is actually not running.
So if I do this again npm run dev,
this actually will be much bigger.
Sorry, to interrupt my
site on what bundlers are,
we do have to do one thing here
on line 14 this is new for
Parcel too, put type equals module.
Cuz we're using ES6 modules, right?
And so you have to inform Parcel
to kick into module mode instead
of CommonJS which is like
const react equals require
react that that style of
module is called CommonJS.
So once you do that then Parcel will be
like okay I get it now, now if I refresh
this page, and I open this, you'll
notice that this hash changed as well.
Now this got significantly longer look
how long this is, that's absurd, right?
Why?
Why is it so long?
Okay, so going backwards now.
Your browser doesn't understand,
A lot of the JavaScript that
modern JavaScript developers use.
So for example, Please don't be pedantic
back at me after I'm pedantic to you,
your browser doesn't really understand
how to did this ES6 imports,
it kind of does actually now but
we're not using it in that particular way.
The way we have written it would
not understand, let's go with that.
And so we need some tool to take all
of our JavaScript files, including all
the stuff that we install from the node
modules directory, and put into a big
glob of JavaScript and ship it down to
something that a browser can understand.
Particularly if you are supporting
older browsers, right?
If you are still supporting, Internet
Explorer11, one, I am deeply sorry, and
two, you need something that's going
to package it in such a way that those
browsers can understand.
Another thing is, we're doing things
here like arrow functions, right?
Internet Explorer does not
understand arrow functions, right?
So something has to take that new style of
JavaScript and translate it into an old
style of JavaScript This
is what your Parcel or
Webpack or Vitet or
ES build or Snowpack or
Browserify or rollup I can keep going.
So, no one wants me to keep going though.
Anyway, there's a lot of
JavaScript bundlers out there.
That's what these are doing for you,
they're taking this input of code that you
want, and then it's repackaging in such
a way that it's generally applicable
to the browsers that you're targeting.
Now I'm simplifying basically
something like Parcel is the tip of
the spear in the sense of it's not
doing that all inside a Parcel itself.
It's using tools like Babel and
PostCSS and the TypeScript compiler,
and a myriad of as you can see here,
we installed 186 packages.
It's using all 186 of those open
source tools to pull together into one
cohesive package which is Parcel.
And then we're gonna start using
non standard JavaScript syntax
when we start using JSX.
Browsers definitely don't speak JSX.
So you need something to translate that
from code that I'm writing to code that
browsers can understand.
I probably could have just said that and
ended it there, but here we are.
Why are we not using create-react-app?
Or what is create-react-app?
Let's start with why we're
not using create-react-app.
Basically what I was telling you at the
beginning of the course, that I hated that
most JavaScript tutorials start with, draw
the circle, then draw the rest of the owl.
That's what create-react-app does for you,
it drops you into the middle of a project.
It's very disorienting if you don't
know where you are and just say cool,
you have now a fully functional
development environment, go forth and
create React apps.
And you're like, how?
Where am I?
How did I get here?
Who took my keys, right?
You start asking questions like that.
Create-react-app is great, if I have to
knock out something in ten minutes and
I wanna just prototype really quick.
Actually these days they
probably still will use Parcel,
cuz it's almost as fast, right?
But you can just say npm init React app,
and
you'll just get like a brand new
React app ready to go, right?
It'll have TypeScript, it'll have testing,
it'll have a bunch of stuff like that,
it's solid technology.
But that's why we're not using
create-react-app because I didn't want
you to start with a functioning
development environment.
I wanted you to start writing code, start
to feel the pain of why we do something
that way and then I want you to know the
tool to solve the pain that we experience.
So that's what create-react-app is.
That's why we're not using it, question.
>> Not sure maybe I heard you wrong,
I think you said npm, it's npx right?
Create-react-app.
>> So I guess it doesn't work anymore.
So there used to be a way to init,
projects called npm init and
it looks like create-react-app
stopped supporting that.
So you have to do,
to your point, npx create,
you can see there I used it to create
next step, create-react-app test app.
So it will go through and
just set up everything for you.
And to his point, most of it's optional,
but again, you kind of have to,
you're starting at step 14 and
you're wondering how you got there.
By the time that you're done with this
project you'll understand every single
file and why it is there and more than
anything you don't have to follow
my way of writing code don't for
that matter, right?
And I want you to understand the tool,
understand what it does, and
then I want you to make
a conscious decision.
This adds to my experience of this
does not add to my experience and
then go forth and with your opinion on it.
So if we look here into test app You can
see here it's got a bunch of stuff in it.
It comes with tests and who writes tests?
[LAUGH] It's got a robots.txt,
stuff like that,
manifest.json, ain't nobody use that,
just kidding.
You should probably use it,
it's a good idea.
Look at that, comments, now they're
joking with me, no one writes comments.
I remember I got in a very serious
discussion with Jim Young and
other fantastic Frontend Masters
teacher about how much you
should comment your code, and at the time
I was very wrong, Jim was right.
Jim was saying that you should comment,
well, Jim writes a lot of comments.
I think he was some time on that.
I feel like I've just started like four
fights with other Frontend Masters
teachers during the course of this course.
It's fine, they're not here,
they can't argue back